Work come back in in this lesson.
We're going to build an exciting game which I like to call hit the computer.
So it's similar to whack a mole but you're going to be whacking some old computers.
So first of all let's build out our game.
We need to build out our h t m l.
So I wanted to set up the score.
So score we're going to be doing within this game we're going to include it within a span.
And we're going to give this span a class of score.
So let's go.
Give us the ability to select it and update it within the game.
So next thing that I want it to do is I want it to set up a START button.
So this is going to be type button
input type button
and let's add on click and whenever it gets clicked we're going to fire off start and give it a value
of start game.
So this is we always need a starting point for the game.
So let's we're going to set that up and then also we're going to build out a game board.
So let's give it a class and this is where all of the action is going to happen within our game.
It's going to all happen within the game board.
And I'm going to get rid of the message of.
So that's it.
We're ready to go.
And next let's add in some styling so much like last time.
I want to have the ability to actually see my game board with for the game board and right now let's
set a width of the game board and we'll do 600 picks.
And next let's set a height for the game board.
So we'll do 500 picks for the height and we're going to center this.
So to margin.
0 auto.
So the center left to right.
And also I wanted to add in a board or someone pick solid and are going to have a really really light
water so this is SO WE CAN BARELY kind of see what the game board looks like.
So there we go.
So there are game board.
There's our start button.
And next we need to be able to fire off that starting of the game.
So let's set up the start of the game and we've got a function start and that's where we're going to
contain our start information.
So there's a few other things that we still need to build out and we need to actually build our game
board.
So let's go ahead and build our game board.
So we're going to do window on load.
And the window on load will launch our build function and build is going to allow us to build out our
gameboard.
So the game is going to be structured with several different divs and within the divs we're going to
have a pit area for the computer to be able to hide in.
And then one computer will pop up at a time and you have to guess where it's popping up and actually
hit it.
So let's build out our gameboard So this function is just called Build and we're passing any parameters
arguments into it.
And let's set up a variable to.
So local variable and let's have some nice h to Mellin here hit the computer so not your actual computer
but the computer images that we're going to have on the screen.
So next you need to loop through create a loop and this loop is going to be what's going to allow us
to build out the game elements.
So we've got variable starting at zero and we want to loop through while x.
So this is where we can enter in a value for the number of computers we want to show up.
So let's start out with six and let's increment X by 1.
So we know that we can't add to h Tamal.
So let's add to it and concatenate to it.
And we're going to add in a series of divs we're going to give a class of.
So we can call it maybe the desk or something like that.
So that's going to be where the computers are going to be housed or where actually we'll call it we'll
call it our office.
So that's where the computers our houses.
A bunch of little offices there and the computers are going to be hiding behind desks.
So do class and this is where we're going to set up a class of desk.
And this one is just going to be blank.
So we're going to make colorful div there.
And next let's add in our class and this one is where the computers actually sit.
So give to a class of computer close off and close off that div and then close off that div.
So the next thing that we need to do is add it to our age to a male.
So let's use queery selector and we'll grab our class gameboard.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and add in that h him out to the gameboard.
So I'll show you how to do that.
And this is something that we've done many times before so document and still get element by Adey this
time.
Let's use Querrey selector and what query selector does is it allows us to select by different parameters.
The same thing as CSSA and we need to select our gameboard and then let's add that H to Maol using inner
h to Mel and we'll add in our age to my object that we've just created.
So we also need to set up some styling so we know that we set some styling for the gameboard but we're
not going to be able to see any of the computers at the desks unless we actually add in some styling.
So let's go ahead and do the styling for the desk.
So the desk itself is going to take up for 100 percent with the available space and next.
Let's do our height.
So let's set up 50 pics of height and we probably will have to adjust that position for it is going
to be absolute
and let's give it a background color.
So the background color of it is we can pick a color so maybe it's two brown
or would say that one is a nice interesting color.
And also I want to set the Zad index of it.
So this is where we can.
That's the stacking order in CSX.
So I ultimately I do want the desk to show up above the computer because this is where the computer
can hide behind.
So now let's set up a background image and grow background.
And so you are all for the image and the image is actually I've got it right on my computer.
So I've got comp PMG And let's set it up at the bottom center and no repeats so we only have one background
image.
Let's position that.
So the position for it is absolute.
So that way we can move it around top is 100 percent
and with well set the width to 100 percent.
So it's going to allocate all of the available space that it has.
And height is 100 percent.
So this is going to be 100 percent of the parent element which is the office so we're going to have
to set those.
So now next let's set the office area.
So this is where we're going to contain our computer and our desk.
So we're just going to simply float these.
So they'll float to the left of each other.
So we're all going to float in line.
We need to set a width.
So I might just set 150 picks.
We might have to make it smaller.
We also need to set a height because we've got 500 pics to work with.
So let's do 200 picks.
And again this might be something that we might want to adjust.
I want to do the overflow so overflow we should highlight any of the overflow so keep it hidden hidden
and let's position it.
So this one is going to be position and it's actually going to be relative.
So now let's go ahead and try this.
So go ahead and save the application.
Go out and let's see if we build the game board.
So we do have the game board being built out but we can't actually see the difference from the different
borders of the offices.
So let's add that in.
And I have a feeling that we probably need to make some adjustments.
So make it slightly smaller refresh it again.
And also I want to add in some margins.
So let's add in margins to the sides and let's try 30 pics of margins.
So let's refresh and that was a little bit too big.
Let's let's cut the with a little bit because I want to have three by three.
And also let's do some margins at the top and the bottom as well so that we can have some better spacing
between them.
So there we go.
And one more slight adjustment going to change this to be 7 170.
So that way it will fit nicely and neatly into
and I still want to actually move the dust to the bottom.
So let's set this one at the bottom and we're going to do zero picks.
So that right at the bottom.
So just right now we're at the top.
We want them at the bottom and we want the computers to pop up within these slots.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and add in event listeners for each one of these computer
areas.
So we've created the computers and we need to add that listeners to those.
So let's use Querrey selector and we're going to set up a global variable so that we have access to
a global variable.
Is computers and then and here computers is going to equal to.
We're going to sign it document and this time we're going to use Querrey selector all so Querrey selector
all creates that array of all the matching elements and elements that we're looking for are the ones
that have a class of computer.
So we're basically going to build out that array and then next we need to loop through that array.
So I've done this many times before where we're going to attach the event listener so we loop through
while X is less than the length of that array.
So the computer array.
Next we need to increment x.
So we have a way out of our loop.
And next let's add in to computer and we've called it computers there and we call it computer here.
So let's add in to computer and we're going to attach that listener and the listener that we're adding
is click and the function that we want to fire off his hit computer.
And we're not going to bubble up.
We're not going to add any additional parameters so we'll just we'll set that up.
So now what happens is once we hit the computer that we want to do a check.
So let's update and add in that function.
So we need a new function now which is called Hit computer and this is where we're going to actually
check to see if the computer got hit and the way that we're actually going to show with our computers.
If you want to take a quick peek at the computer notice that were top 100 percent.
So basically we're moving it all the way down.
So it's out of the visible area.
And whenever we're out of the visible area our overflow is hidden in the office.
So let's go back and refresh it.
And so that way we can actually see the computers.
So I do have to actually shrink these images down because I think they turned out a little bit big.
So it's Add in a background size 100 percent by 100 percent.
So there we go.
So now we can see our computers and we can see them popping up
and what I wanted to do maybe I can do 80 percent
and we're going to have to actually do the full with the full height so it can do 80 percent height
and background will do 100 percent.
So there we go.
So now we've got our computers and basically this is what they're going to look like when they pop up.
So I'm going to go back and I'm going to update this back to 100 percent.
And we know that for them to pop up we need to update and add in a class so we can set up a class and
we can call this pop up.
And this class is actually going to add top and it's going to send the top to zero.
So basically this will give us the ability when we add the class top then the computers can actually
pop up and we're going to see it visible.
So all of this is coming up in the next section.
Where we're going to show you how we can pick our Random office and then within this office I want to
attach to the computer and have it pop up.
And then if the computer actually gets clicked then we want to have some type of functionality.
So right now we already have that functionality where the computer gets hit.
So that's being taken care of over there.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to hide and pop up the computers randomly.
So that's coming up in the next section.